---
layout: post
title: Exciting news
subtitle: Soon to be started: MSCA ERA funded #Waste2Drug project
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/mc.png
share-img: /assets/img/mc.jpg
tags: [MSCA, ERA, Fellowship]
author: Sofia Kiriakidi
---

Excited to share some incredible news! 
I am thrilled and deeply honored to announce that I have been awarded the prestigious hashtag#EuropeanResearchArea (ERA) hashtag#PostdoctoralFellowship under Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions (hashtag#MSCA) with the hashtag#Waste2Drug project! 🌟 This is a significant milestone in my academic and research journey, and I am incredibly grateful for this recognition.

This fellowship opens up new avenues for exploration and collaboration, allowing me to delve deeper into cutting-edge research in hashtag#WasteValorisation and novel hashtag#DrugDesign . I am excited about the opportunities ahead to contribute to the advancement of knowledge and innovation in this field.

Receiving the MSCA ERA Fellowship is not just a personal achievement, but a testament to the hard work, dedication, and support of my mentors, colleagues, and collaborators who have guided and inspired me along the way. 

I look forward to the exciting challenges and discoveries that lie ahead and am eager to embark on this transformative journey at NovaMechanics Ltd with Dr. Antreas Afantitis. While I am immensly excited to start on the new project, due to being currently engaged in another competitive fellowship from the Xunta de Galicia, I will be commencing the project at a later date. This overlap presents a unique opportunity for me to leverage insights and experiences from both fellowships, enriching my research endeavors and contributing to the advancement of knowledge using hashtag#computationalchemistry in a hashtag#multidisciplinaryapproach. 

I'm eager to bring fresh perspectives and innovative ideas to the table when I fully begin the Marie Curie ERA Fellowship.
